President Xi Jinping is working to activate the Chinese Belt & Road Nations' One Initiative. Whereas Bangladesh is also a member state of the Belt & Road and as well neighboring country India is one member too. 

Now, again, Bangladesh & India are also member nations to the English Commonwealth of Nations. English King of UK Charles III is Monarch to Australia, Canada and many Commonwealth states & territories/regions. King Charles III is also head of the Commonwealth of Nations. So, their British rules and interests may come first as well British laws also available in Bangladesh since the British Empire ruled this Mahabharata belt. 

But the Chittagong Hill-Tracts Peace Process is still surviving in Bangladesh for many decades whereas Buddhist majority people were fighting for their freedom & rights. But throughout the process, Chittagong Hill-Tracts Peace Accord was signed in 1997 between Bangladesh Government & CHT Freedom Fighters Forces in order to provide them independence of the region in autonomous status by allowing them to making Chittagong Hill-Tracts Regional Government and to recognize their nation's identity, and also all deployed Bangladesh Military Forces active duties, reserves, volunteers, civilian manpowers and all the military camps, bases and establishments should be withdrawn from the entire CHT Region. Currently there is the Buddists majority population known as indigenous, tribal and small & micro nations population, many tribes have their own language and their religious belief is Buddhism which is herein the local faith, culture and religious practices and the population are also very local. But the foreign faith & culture/practice of Arabian hegemonism Islamized in Bangladesh under another foreign faith Christism leadership. So, the local believers population of Hinduism and Buddhism were eliminated more than 90% and have been identified as a minor population group.

However, now reality is that Bangladesh as an Islamic state where most majority population are Muslim and government & private fields everywhere the Muslimism prioritizes. Also rules under the Christism leadership of the United Kingdom Commonwealth of Nations, thereas currently inaugurated King Charles III is head to the all member states including Bangladesh and directly monarch King to the many member states & territories/regions in the world. So, religiously discriminated Buddists people didn't address ever in Bangladesh in the rightful ways and the Chittagong Peace Process' last signed agreement to allow Hill-Tracts majority people Buddhism believers to build their own government form and Bangladesh armies withdraw - still didn't execute. But Bangladesh increased about millions of Muslim population there which is another step to completely eliminate the Buddists population in Bangladesh. 

Now it is very clear that the Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Awami League Government of Bangladesh cheated with the Chittagong Hilltracts Buddists population by the peace accord whereas about million of rehabilitated Muslim population here in Chittagong Hill Tracts regions got a set of free & secure living conditions and increased their Muslim population, working to spread Islam & destroying Buddhism where all the works are conducted by the sponsor of the Bangladesh Government. But still the rehabilitated people have connections with their origin addresses from where they came in Chittagong Hill Tracts region, so still it is possible also to withdraw them from Chittagong Hill Tracts region & send them back to their native locations. But after a generation they will be fully disconnected with their origin and to withdraw them wouldn't be possible. So, to promising Chittagong HillTracts Regional Government of the tribal, indigenous, micronations and freedom fighters through the Chittagong Hill Tracts Peace Accord 1997 was the last yet official initiative of the Chittagong Peace Process was a big deception by the Sheikh Hasina & AL-GOB. Because Bangladesh make the Buddists freedom fighters unarmed by took deposit all arms & weapons and didn't yet implemented the signed peace agreement but also made more rightful free access to the Muslim people to Islamized there everywhere by perishing Buddists people. 

Through the years, several emails, press releases and messages/information/queries were sent to many first authorities of the Bangladesh government including the Prime Minister's Office, but nobody spoke yet about it. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina & Awami League Government of Bangladesh took the last official initiative of the Chittagong Peace Process by conducting & signed the CHT Peace Accord 1997 but now AL-GOB again in the government power and Sheikh Hasina is also Prime Minister since 2009 and they did nothing yet to implement the peace agreement's major treaties. 

By this way, Bangladesh also became a member of the Chinese Belt & Road Initiative whereas China also provided Age's best significant development support to Bangladesh. So, it is a very relevant, important and urgent issue to allow China as a head of the international government organization One Belt and One Road Initiative whereas Chinese rules & regulation may be partially applicable in Bangladesh in order to provide implanting support to the Chittagong Peace Process. 

However, Global War on Terrorism which again may be called World War on Global Terrorism is actually the third world war whereas Russia also joined into the world war against NATO-Ukraine alliance's intention of the operation searchlight of finding Islamic terrorism forms in the Independent Nation states especially the commonwealth leader Russian Federation insight. On the other hand, Myanmar also intends to attack Bangladesh on the same issues if the Islamic terrorism threats against the Union of Myanmar and also the religious Buddists population freedom & rights of the autonomous Regional Government establishment by implementation of CHT Peace Accord 1997 which didn't go into force yet since 1997 to still today 2023.
